docs: javadocs config for api-client (#5581)
confluentinc/ksql: docs/developer-guide/ksqldb-clients/java-client.md

---
layout: page
title: Java Client for ksqlDB
tagline: Java client for ksqlDB
description: Send requests to ksqlDB from your Java app
keywords: ksqlDB, java, client
---

> ksqlDB ships with a lightweight Java client that allows you to easily send requests to a ksqlDB server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ksqlDB ships with a lightweight Java client that enables send requests easily to a ksqlDB server
```

from within your Java application, as an alternative to using the [REST API](../api.md).
The client currently supports pull and push queries as well as inserting new rows of data into existing ksqlDB streams.

> Soon the client will also support persistent queries and admin operations such as listing streams, tables, and topics. 

Reviewer: Generally, we don't want to make promises about future features in docs, but It's probably fine in this case.

!!! tip
    [View the Java client API documentation](api/index.html)

The client sends requests to the recently added HTTP2 server endpoints: pull and push queries are served by
the [`/query-stream` endpoint](TODO), and inserts are served by the [`/inserts-stream` endpoint](TODO).

> Consequently, the client should only be used with ksqlDB deployments on version 0.10.0 or newer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the client only with ksqlDB deployments on version 0.10.0 or newer.
```

    this.subscription = subscription;

    // Request the first row
    subscription.request(1);
  }

  @Override
  public synchronized void onNext(Row row) {
    System.out.println("Received a row!");
    System.out.println("Row: " + row.values());

    // Request the next row
    subscription.request(1);
  }

  @Override
  public synchronized void onError(Throwable t) {
    System.out.println("Received an error: " + t);
  }

  @Override
  public synchronized void onComplete() {
    System.out.println("Query has ended.");
  }
}
```

Use the Java client to send the query result to the server and stream results to the subscriber:

```java
client.streamQuery("SELECT * FROM MY_STREAM EMIT CHANGES;")
    .thenAccept(streamedQueryResult -> {
      System.out.println("Query has started. Query ID: " + streamedQueryResult.queryID());
      
      RowSubscriber subscriber = new RowSubscriber();
      streamedQueryResult.subscribe(subscriber);
    }).exceptionally(e -> {
      System.out.println("Request failed: " + e);
      return null;
    });
```

### Synchronous Usage ###

To consume records one-at-a-time in a synchronous fashion, use the `poll()` method on the query result object.

> If `poll()` is called with no arguments, `poll()` blocks until a new row becomes available or the query is terminated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `poll()` is called with no arguments, blocks until a new row becomes available or the query is terminated.
```

    System.out.println("Row: " + row.values());
  } else {
    System.out.println("Query has ended.");
  }
}
```

Receive query results in a single batch (executeQuery())<a name="execute-query"></a>
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The `executeQuery()` method enables client apps to receive query results as a single batch
that's returned when the query completes.

```java
public interface Client {

  /**
   * Executes a query (push or pull) and returns all result rows in a single batch, once the query
   * has completed.
   *
   * <p>By default, push queries issued via this method return results starting from the beginning
   * of the stream or table. To override this behavior, use the method
   * {@link #executeQuery(String, Map)} to pass in the query property {@code auto.offset.reset}
   * with value set to {@code latest}.
   *
   * @param sql statement of query to execute
   * @return query result
   */
  BatchedQueryResult executeQuery(String sql);
  
  ...
  
}
```

This method is suitable for both pull queries and for terminating push queries, for example, queries that have a `LIMIT` clause).

> For non-temrinating push queries, use [the `streamQuery()` method](./stream-query.md) instead. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For non-terminating push queries, use [the `streamQuery()` method](./stream-query.md) instead. 
```

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The `terminatePushQuery()` method enables client apps to terminate push queries.

```java
public interface Client {

  /**
   * Terminates a push query with the specified query ID.
   *
   * <p>If a non-200 response is received from the server, the {@code CompletableFuture} will be
   * failed.
   *
   * @param queryId ID of the query to terminate
   * @return a future that completes once the server response is received
   */
  CompletableFuture<Void> terminatePushQuery(String queryId);
  
  ...
  
}
```

The query ID is obtained from the query result response object when the client issues push queries,
by using either the [`streamQuery()`](./stream-query.md) or [`executeQuery()`](./execute-query.md) methods.

### Example Usage ###

Here's an example of terminating a push query issued by using the `streamQuery()` method:

```java
String pushQuery = "SELECT * FROM MY_STREAM EMIT CHANGES;";
StreamedQueryResult streamedQueryResult = client.streamQuery(pushQuery).get();

String queryId = streamedQueryResult.queryID();
client.terminatePushQuery(queryId).get();
```

> And here's an analogous example for terminating a push query issued by using the `executeQuery()` method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's an analogous example for terminating a push query issued by using the `executeQuery()` method:
```

```java
public interface Client {

  /**
   * Inserts a row into a ksqlDB stream.
   *
   * <p>The {@code CompletableFuture} will be failed if a non-200 response is received from the
   * server, or if the server encounters an error while processing the insertion.
   *
   * @param streamName name of the target stream
   * @param row the row to insert. Keys are column names and values are column values.
   * @return a future that completes once the server response is received
   */
  CompletableFuture<Void> insertInto(String streamName, KsqlObject row);
  
  ...
  
}
```

Rows for insertion are represented as `KsqlObject` instances. A `KsqlObject` represents a map of strings
(in this case, column names) to values (column values).

### Example Usage ###

Here's an example of using the client to insert a new row into an existing stream `ORDERS`
with schema (ORDER_ID BIGINT, PRODUCT_ID VARCHAR, USER_ID VARCHAR).

```java
KsqlObject row = new KsqlObject()
    .put("ROWKEY", "k1")
    .put("ORDER_ID", 12345678L)
    .put("PRODUCT_ID", "UAC-222-19234")
    .put("USER_ID", "User_321");

client.insertInto("ORDERS", row).get();
```

> Tutorial Examples

Reviewer: These are great!
